# React:

- A JS Library for building UI
- High level js code. Easy to debug and easy to write.
- since just JS makes application complex.
- React is all about components. For routing, need other libraries

- UI state becomes difficult to handle with Vanilla JS
- highly efficient and fast

## Components:

- Re-usability
- seperation of concern
- one focus or task to do
- configure

## Alternative:

- Vue
- Angular

## single page application;

- one html
- content is handled by js
- component Concept
- one ReactDom.render()

## JSX - javascript xml

- Another method but not recommended

```js
  React.createElement('div', null , React.createElement('h1',null, 'Hi')); -> without class
```

## useState vs this.setState (imp difference)

1.

```js
    this.state = {name:'sharad',age:23};

    // to change:
    this.setState({name:'sourabh'})

    // final state:
    {name:'sourabh',age:23}
```

```jsx
[person, setPerson] = useState({ name: "sharad", age: 23 });

setPerson({ name: "sourabh" });

{
  name: "sourabh";
}
```

2.  can be used multiple times

## Styling:

1. using .css file
2. inline style --> const style = {backgroundColor:'Red'} and pass it in element

## Other Libraries:

- Preact (Smaller React)

## CLI:

```
npx create-react-app my-app
```

## How React renders DOM:

- each component is just a function at the end which returns JSX
- each components are called in parent component
- so it creates a DOM by parsing all the jsx initially
- but react does it initially and does not repeat that. That is the reason:

```js
let titlee = "initial title";

onClickHandler = () => {
  title = "new title";
};

return <h1>{title}</h1>; // always points to initial title even though the button is clicked
```

- So to resolve that issue, state was introduced to let react know which component needs to be re-rendered

## Lists:

- if keys are not used, react dont know which one to update, so it renders the whole list again.

## service-worker

- pre-cache the script files
- performance
- enable fast loading (regardless of the network), offline access, push notifications, and other capabilities.
- js file which run every time. It keeps running even you close the browser. Due to this we can send push notification,offline mode.

## Notes:

- React watches for state and props change
- hooks ------ react > 16.8
- can import svg as component in react
- we can not use `for` in label element since `for` is reserved word. So we use `htmlFor`

## propTypes:

```
     prop-types package
        -- ComponentName.propTypes = {
            click: PropTypes.func,
            name: PropTypes.string,
            age: PropTypes.number
        }
```
